README.md, before:

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/egraphdb/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/egraphdb/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)
# EGraphDB

Graph Database for building massively scalable and fault tolerant
systems.

> IMPORTANT: riak-core is removed for now.

## Overview


## Introduction

Why build another graph database when there are so many already?
It's the only question isn't it? Well just say that the original motivation
of the creator was to make the end consumers aware of the costs and benefits
running beneath the software. This will allow the users of this database
efficiently and effectively use it to their benefit.

## Vision

The high level plan is as follows:

* Visual web-frontend to explore data stored in the graph
* Support multiple database backends (for example: PgSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, etc)
* Data partitioning for writing to different database backends
  to allow explosion in write IOPS beyond a single backend database master
* A lot more realtime monitoring

## Quick Tour

## Building and Running EgraphDB

Lets take a quick tour of the system and start with adding a couple of data
points, which in this case is list of countries.

Lets build and run the project as follows:

```bash

$ git clone https://github.com/neeraj9/egraphdb
$ cd egraphdb
$ ./rebar3 release
$ $(pwd)/_build/default/rel/egraph/bin/egraph console
```

## Adding Nodes to the Graph

Now in a separate window lets run curl commands to store information
as given in the json further below.

JSON from examples are as follows, which must be used for creating graph nodes.

* [india.json](examples/india.json)
* [usa.json](examples/usa.json)
* [japan.json](examples/japan.json)

The name of the json shall be key_data.json (say india.json, or usa.json),
which will subsequently used to while sending information to EGraphDB.

```bash
$ content_type='content-type: application/json'

$ curl -X POST -H "$content_type" -d@india.json "http://localhost:8001/detail"
$ curl -X POST -H "$content_type" -d@usa.json "http://localhost:8001/detail"
$ curl -X POST -H "$content_type" -d@japan.json "http://localhost:8001/detail"
```

The curl commands above uses the json as given below for India, USA and Japan.
It is important to note that the value of *key_data* must be globally unique,
otherwise EgraphDB shall overwrite previous node information with the same
primary key (which happens to be unique as well).

The value of *details* must be a json dictionary, while the value of *indexes*
must be generic index (*indexes*) and lowercase converted indexes
(*lowercase_indexes*). Note that indexes must be provided while creating
a node, so it must be clear that each node can have different indexes.
Additionally, the type of the indexes are derived from the json itself.

Possible types available for indexes are as follows:

* int
* double
* text
* geo
* date
* datetime

The above must be kept in mind, because these keywords shall be useful
when we run queries on the nodes created in the database.

### Querying Node Details

There are two ways to retrieve details of a node from EgraphDB.

The first one is to use the hash as returned in HTTP Response header
**location:** while creating the node.

```bash

$ curl "http://localhost:8001/detail/19181447080c72c9?keytype=rawhex"

```

Alternatively, you could use the value of **key_data** directly as well
(shown below).

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/detail/india"
```

### Searching Nodes by Index

You can use the indexes to find nodes which exists in the database as follows.
Lets find the hash-id for nodes which have **INR** as currency.

```bash

$ curl "http://localhost:8001/index/INR?keytype=text&indexname=currency"

```

The above curl command will give list of hash-ids which can then be used
to retrieve node details.

### Linking Nodes

Lets link India to USA as follows, wherein there are around 1.1 million
tourists from India to USA in 2017.

* [india\_usa\_link.json](examples/india_usa_link.json)

```bash
$ curl -X POST -H "$content_type" -d@india_usa_link.json "http://localhost:8001/link"
```

```json
{
    "source" : "india",
    "destination" : "usa",
    "details" : {
        "distance_km": 13568,
        "capital_flight_time_hours": 15.5,
        "yearly_tourists": 1100000
    }
}
```

You can now query the link via hash of source (india) and destination (usa).

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/link/19181447080c72c9?destination=ccf364f81fc02db9&keytype=rawhex"
```

Alternatively, you can use the value of the primary key (**source** and
**destination**) as follows:

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/link/india?destination=usa"
```

If you omit **destination** query parameter then it will give all destinations
from india (see below).

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/link/india"
```

### N Depth Graph Traversal

Lets traverse and list all connections originating from a given source
node with a maxdepth as well (see below).

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/v1/search/india?maxdepth=1"
```

> Note that a value of maxdepth = 1 will search level-2 nodes.

### DFS (only one path)

There is a fun little implementation of DFS (Depth First Search), wherein
the datastore shall return one path found via applying DFS on the
stored graph database.

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/v1/search/india?destination=usa&traverse=dfs"
```

### A Little More Complex Search

Lets perform a little more complex search on the datastore, wherein
all the conditions are applied with an **OR** condition (or union).
Additionally, selected node information is retrieved for the
matching nodes instead of getting everything.

* [query.json](examples/query.json)

```bash
$ content_type='content-type: application/json'
$ curl -X POST -H "$content_type" -d@query.json "http://localhost:8001/v1/search"
```

> The json within query.json is as shown below.

The following JSON shall be used for performing generic search via
HTTP POST.

> For the sake of shown range filter there are two
> filters applied for geography.water_percent.

```json
{
    "query": {
        "type": "index",
        "conditions" : {
            "any": [
                {"key": "INR",
                 "key_type": "text",
                 "index_name": "currency"},
                {"key": "tokyo",
                 "key_type": "text",
                 "index_name": "capital_lc__"},
                {"key": [1.0, 50.0],
                 "key_type": "double",
                 "index_name": "water_percent"}
            ],
            "filters": [
                {
                    "key": "India",
                    "key_type": "text",
                    "index_json_path": ["details", "name"]
                },
                {
                    "key": 9.6,
                    "key_type": "double",
                    "index_json_path": ["details", "geography", "water_percent"]
                },
                {
                    "key": [0.6, 10.2],
                    "key_type": "double",
                    "index_json_path": ["details", "geography", "water_percent"]
                }
            ]
        },
        "selected_paths": {
                             "name":  ["details", "name"],
                             "religions": ["details", "religions"],
                             "water_percent": ["details", "geography", "water_percent"]
                          }
    }
}
```

## Building on Ubuntu

> Download and install Erlang from
> https://www.erlang-solutions.com/resources/download.html
 
    sudo apt-get install build-essential
    sudo apt-get install libssl-dev

## Building on Microsoft Windows

> Download and install Erlang from
> https://www.erlang-solutions.com/resources/download.html

## Build

### Clean 

    ./rebar3 clean egraph

### Clean all 

    ./rebar3 clean -a

### Release build

    ./rebar3 release

### Prod build

    ./rebar3 as prod tar
    
## Running app in shell mode

    ./rebar3 shell --apps egraph

## Running shell will all the code

    erl -pa _build/default/lib/*/ebin
    
## Testing and Creating Code Coverage

**TODO**
    
### EUnit Testing

**TODO**

## Generating Code Documentation

The code documentation is generated via [edoc](http://erlang.org/doc/apps/edoc/chapter.html) as follows:

    ./rebar3 edoc

The output is generated in doc/ subfolder.

## observer OMS erlang node

> cookiename is mentioned in vm.args

    erl -name observer@127.0.0.1 -setcookie 'SomeCookie' -run observer

## Code Style

The code style must be validated by [elvis](https://github.com/inaka/elvis),
which does a good job at style reviewing. The repository will be setup (in the
future) such that each of the commit must be automatically reviewed by
elvis before it can be submitted.

### To run elvis for project

    ./elvis rock

### To run elvis for single file

    ./elvis rock <filename>

## References

* <http://egraphdb.org>

Commit message:

augment links with updated datetime for timelines
It is important for some of the usecases to keep track of
age of links when they were updated. This shall give more
flexibility with respect to scenarios where this is
very useful.

README.md, after:

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/egraphdb/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/egraphdb/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)
# EGraphDB

Graph Database for building massively scalable and fault tolerant
systems.

> IMPORTANT: riak-core is removed for now.

## Overview

## Migrating to 0.4.x from 0.2.x

1. Alter the base link table as follows:
```
ALTER TABLE egraph_link_base ADD COLUMN updated_datetime datetime NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP;

ALTER TABLE egraph_link_base ADD INDEX `updated_datetime` (`updated_datetime`);
```

2. Alter all the link tables which exists as follows:

```
ALTER TABLE egraph_link_base_0 ADD COLUMN updated_datetime datetime NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP;

ALTER TABLE egraph_link_base_0 ADD INDEX `updated_datetime` (`updated_datetime`);
```
> Create `update_datetime` column in all the tables and create an index as well.

## Introduction

Why build another graph database when there are so many already?
It's the only question isn't it? Well just say that the original motivation
of the creator was to make the end consumers aware of the costs and benefits
running beneath the software. This will allow the users of this database
efficiently and effectively use it to their benefit.

## Vision

The high level plan is as follows:

* Visual web-frontend to explore data stored in the graph
* Support multiple database backends (for example: PgSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, etc)
* Data partitioning for writing to different database backends
  to allow explosion in write IOPS beyond a single backend database master
* A lot more realtime monitoring

## Quick Tour

## Building and Running EgraphDB

Lets take a quick tour of the system and start with adding a couple of data
points, which in this case is list of countries.

Lets build and run the project as follows:

```bash

$ git clone https://github.com/neeraj9/egraphdb
$ cd egraphdb
$ ./rebar3 release
$ $(pwd)/_build/default/rel/egraph/bin/egraph console
```

## Adding Nodes to the Graph

Now in a separate window lets run curl commands to store information
as given in the json further below.

JSON from examples are as follows, which must be used for creating graph nodes.

* [india.json](examples/india.json)
* [usa.json](examples/usa.json)
* [japan.json](examples/japan.json)

The name of the json shall be key_data.json (say india.json, or usa.json),
which will subsequently used to while sending information to EGraphDB.

```bash
$ content_type='content-type: application/json'

$ curl -X POST -H "$content_type" -d@india.json "http://localhost:8001/detail"
$ curl -X POST -H "$content_type" -d@usa.json "http://localhost:8001/detail"
$ curl -X POST -H "$content_type" -d@japan.json "http://localhost:8001/detail"
```

The curl commands above uses the json as given below for India, USA and Japan.
It is important to note that the value of *key_data* must be globally unique,
otherwise EgraphDB shall overwrite previous node information with the same
primary key (which happens to be unique as well).

The value of *details* must be a json dictionary, while the value of *indexes*
must be generic index (*indexes*) and lowercase converted indexes
(*lowercase_indexes*). Note that indexes must be provided while creating
a node, so it must be clear that each node can have different indexes.
Additionally, the type of the indexes are derived from the json itself.

Possible types available for indexes are as follows:

* int
* double
* text
* geo
* date
* datetime

The above must be kept in mind, because these keywords shall be useful
when we run queries on the nodes created in the database.

### Querying Node Details

There are two ways to retrieve details of a node from EgraphDB.

The first one is to use the hash as returned in HTTP Response header
**location:** while creating the node.

```bash

$ curl "http://localhost:8001/detail/19181447080c72c9?keytype=rawhex"

```

Alternatively, you could use the value of **key_data** directly as well
(shown below).

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/detail/india"
```

### Searching Nodes by Index

You can use the indexes to find nodes which exists in the database as follows.
Lets find the hash-id for nodes which have **INR** as currency.

```bash

$ curl "http://localhost:8001/index/INR?keytype=text&indexname=currency"

```

The above curl command will give list of hash-ids which can then be used
to retrieve node details.

### Linking Nodes

Lets link India to USA as follows, wherein there are around 1.1 million
tourists from India to USA in 2017.

* [india\_usa\_link.json](examples/india_usa_link.json)

```bash
$ curl -X POST -H "$content_type" -d@india_usa_link.json "http://localhost:8001/link"
```

```json
{
    "source" : "india",
    "destination" : "usa",
    "details" : {
        "distance_km": 13568,
        "capital_flight_time_hours": 15.5,
        "yearly_tourists": 1100000
    }
}
```

You can now query the link via hash of source (india) and destination (usa).

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/link/19181447080c72c9?destination=ccf364f81fc02db9&keytype=rawhex"
```

Alternatively, you can use the value of the primary key (**source** and
**destination**) as follows:

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/link/india?destination=usa"
```

If you omit **destination** query parameter then it will give all destinations
from india (see below).

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/link/india"
```

### N Depth Graph Traversal

Lets traverse and list all connections originating from a given source
node with a maxdepth as well (see below).

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/v1/search/india?maxdepth=1"
```

> Note that a value of maxdepth = 1 will search level-2 nodes.

### DFS (only one path)

There is a fun little implementation of DFS (Depth First Search), wherein
the datastore shall return one path found via applying DFS on the
stored graph database.

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:8001/v1/search/india?destination=usa&traverse=dfs"
```

### A Little More Complex Search

Lets perform a little more complex search on the datastore, wherein
all the conditions are applied with an **OR** condition (or union).
Additionally, selected node information is retrieved for the
matching nodes instead of getting everything.

* [query.json](examples/query.json)

```bash
$ content_type='content-type: application/json'
$ curl -X POST -H "$content_type" -d@query.json "http://localhost:8001/v1/search"
```

> The json within query.json is as shown below.

The following JSON shall be used for performing generic search via
HTTP POST.

> For the sake of shown range filter there are two
> filters applied for geography.water_percent.

```json
{
    "query": {
        "type": "index",
        "conditions" : {
            "any": [
                {"key": "INR",
                 "key_type": "text",
                 "index_name": "currency"},
                {"key": "tokyo",
                 "key_type": "text",
                 "index_name": "capital_lc__"},
                {"key": [1.0, 50.0],
                 "key_type": "double",
                 "index_name": "water_percent"}
            ],
            "filters": [
                {
                    "key": "India",
                    "key_type": "text",
                    "index_json_path": ["details", "name"]
                },
                {
                    "key": 9.6,
                    "key_type": "double",
                    "index_json_path": ["details", "geography", "water_percent"]
                },
                {
                    "key": [0.6, 10.2],
                    "key_type": "double",
                    "index_json_path": ["details", "geography", "water_percent"]
                }
            ]
        },
        "selected_paths": {
                             "name":  ["details", "name"],
                             "religions": ["details", "religions"],
                             "water_percent": ["details", "geography", "water_percent"]
                          }
    }
}
```

## Building on Ubuntu

> Download and install Erlang from
> https://www.erlang-solutions.com/resources/download.html
 
    sudo apt-get install build-essential
    sudo apt-get install libssl-dev

## Building on Microsoft Windows

> Download and install Erlang from
> https://www.erlang-solutions.com/resources/download.html

## Build

### Clean 

    ./rebar3 clean egraph

### Clean all 

    ./rebar3 clean -a

### Release build

    ./rebar3 release

### Prod build

    ./rebar3 as prod tar
    
## Running app in shell mode

    ./rebar3 shell --apps egraph

## Running shell will all the code

    erl -pa _build/default/lib/*/ebin
    
## Testing and Creating Code Coverage

**TODO**
    
### EUnit Testing

**TODO**

## Generating Code Documentation

The code documentation is generated via [edoc](http://erlang.org/doc/apps/edoc/chapter.html) as follows:

    ./rebar3 edoc

The output is generated in doc/ subfolder.

## observer OMS erlang node

> cookiename is mentioned in vm.args

    erl -name observer@127.0.0.1 -setcookie 'SomeCookie' -run observer

## Code Style

The code style must be validated by [elvis](https://github.com/inaka/elvis),
which does a good job at style reviewing. The repository will be setup (in the
future) such that each of the commit must be automatically reviewed by
elvis before it can be submitted.

### To run elvis for project

    ./elvis rock

### To run elvis for single file

    ./elvis rock <filename>

## References

* <http://egraphdb.org>
